
It is important to be aware of these issues as they impact on the data which
                w




is to be collected and analyzed.
      Exact definition of the problem
        This is necessary in order to ensure that nothing important is omitted
        from the enquiry, and effort is not wasted by collecting irrelevant
        data. The problem as originally put to the statistician is often of a
        very general type and it needs to be specified precisely before work
        can begin.

    Definition of the units
     The results must appear in comparable units for any analysis to be
     valid. If the analysis is going to involve comparisons, then the data
     must all be in the same units. It is no use just asking for ‗output‘
     from several factories – some may give their answers in numbers of


   30
     items, some in weigh of items, some in number of inspected batches
     and so on.
    Scope of the enquiry.
     No investigation should be got under way without defining the field
     to be covered. Are we interested in all departments of our business,
     or only some? Are we to concern ourselves with our own business
     only, or with others of the same kind?

    Accuracy of the data
     To what degree of accuracy is data to be recorded? For example, are
     ages of individuals to be given to the nearest year or to the nearest
     month or as the number of completed years? If some of the data is to
     come from measurements, then the accuracy of the measuring
     instrument will determine the accuracy of the results. The degree of
     precision required in an estimate might affect the amount of data we
     need to collect. In general, the more precisely we wish to estimate a




                                                        om
     value, the more readings we need to take.




                                                    i.c
Data sources and types

                                                ng
Data constitute the foundation of statistical analysis and interpretation.
Data can be obtained from three sources namely;
                                             si
    Primary source
                                       om

    Secondary source
    Internal records
                                  om



Primary data
                             as




Primary data are measurement, observed and recorded as part of an
originals study. There are two basic methods of obtaining primary data
                         .m




namely;
     Questionnaires
                      w




     Observation
                   w




     Interviews
                w




     Sampling
Primary data is data which is both original and has been obtained in order
to solve the specific problem in hand. Primary data is, therefore, raw data
