


                                                     i.c
     They help in framing suitable policies
     They reveal trends and tendencies
     Index numbers are very useful in deflatingng
                                             si
Classification of index numbers.
                                        om

Index numbers may be classified in terms of what they measure. In
economics and business the classification is;
                                  om



     Price
     Quantity
                              as




     Value
     Special purpose
                         .m




Problems in the constructing of index numbers
                      w




Before constructing index numbers a careful thought must be given to the
following problems.
                   w




    i)     The purpose of the index; as the very outset the purpose of
                w




           constructing the must be very clearly decided.
    ii)    Availability and comparability of data; it is needles to say that it
           is impossible to make appropriate comparison unless the
           necessary statistical data can be obtained
    iii)   Selection of base period; whenever index number are constructs,
           a reference is made to some base period ,safe period should be
           normal , it should not be too distant.
    iv)    Selection of number of items; every item cannot be included
           while constructing an index number and hence one has to select a
           sample.
    v)     Price quotation; after the commodities have been selected the
           next problem is to obtain price quotation for these commodities
           pricing vary from place to place and even from shop to shop.

  177
   vi)     Choice of an average; since index numbers are specific average a
           decision has to be made as to which particular average (i.e.
           arithmetic mean, median , mode , geometric mean)
   vii)    Selection of appropriate weight; the problem of selecting suitable
           weights are quite important and at the same time quite difficult
           to decide.
   viii)   Selection of appropriate formula; a large number of formula have
           been devised for often constructing the index numbers. The
           problem very often is that in selecting the most appropriate
           formula.

An index number is an attempt to summarize a whole mass of data into one
figure. The single figure shows how one year differs from another year. It is
a statistical devise used to measure the change in the level of prices, wages
output and other variables at given times, relative to their level at an
earlier time which is taken as the base for comparison purposes




                                                        om
                          Pn
A simple price index =        × 100 (an unweighted price index)
                          Po




                                                    i.c
A simple quantity index =
                             Qn
                                               ng
                                 × 100 (an unweighted quantity index)
                                             si
                             Qo
