      Inspection time
                     w




      More time
                  w




      Queue time
               w




      Storage time

Of these 5 steps only process time actually adds value to the products. All the
other activities add cost and No value to the production and therefore are
deemed as non-value within the JIT philosophy.
Usually in many companies, process time is less than 10% of total
manufacturing, lead and cycle time. Therefore 90% of the manufacturing lead
time disassociated with the product, adds cost but no-value to the product by
adapting a JIT philosophy and forecasting, on reducing lead time, it is claimed
that total cost can be significantly reduced.
The ultimate products with lead-time = processing time, and eliminating all
non-value adding activities.




                                       303
(2). Factory Layout
The first stage of implementing the JIT manufacturing techniques is to
rearrange the factory floor away from the batch production functional layout
towards a production layout using low lines with a functional plant layout
production through a No. of special departments that normally contain a group
of similar machines.
Products are processed in stage batches so as to minimize the set times when
machine settings are changed between processing batches of different
products. Batches move via different and complex routes through the various
departments, traveling over much of the factory floor before they are
complete.
Each process normally involves a considerable amount of waiting time and
which much time is taken transporting items from one process to another.

A further problem is that it is not easy at any point in time to determine what
progress has been made on individual batches and therefore detailed cost
accumulation records are necessary to track work in progress. This results in




                                                      om
long manufacturing cycles and high work in progress levels.




                                                  i.c
The JIT solution is to reorganize the production process by dividing the many
different products that an organization makes into families of similar products
                                              ng
or component. All the products is a in a particular group will have similar
                                            si
production requirement and routing. Production is necessary used* so that each
                                     om

production family is manufactured in a well-defined production cell based on
flow line principles. In a production how lines specialist department containing
                                om



similar markets no longer exist. Instead groups of dissimilar markets are
organised into products or component family flow lines that function like an
assembly line.
                            as
                          .m




For each production lines the market are placed close together in the order in
which they are required by the group of products to be processed. Items in
                      w




each product family can now move one at time from process to process more
                  w




easily, thereby reducing wip, and lead time.
