Note: To use the t distribution tables it is important to find the degrees of
freedom (v = n – 1). In the example above v = 12 – 1 = 11
From the tables we find that at 95% confidence level against 11 and under
0.05, the value of t = 2.201

HYPOTHESIS TESTING

Definition
- A hypothesis is a claim or an opinion about an item or issue. Therefore it
has to be tested statistically in order to establish whether it is correct or
not correct
- Whenever testing a hypothesis, one must fully understand the 2 basic
hypotheses to be tested namely
    i.     The null hypothesis (H0)

  140
   ii.    The alternative hypothesis(H1)

The null hypothesis
This is the hypothesis being tested, the belief of a certain characteristic
e.g. Kenya Bureau of Standards (KBS) may walk to a sugar making company
with an intention of confirming that the 2kgs bags of sugar produced are
actually 2kgs and not less, they conduct hypothesis testing with the null
hypothesis being: H0 = each bag weighs 2kgs. The testing will set out to
confirm this or to refute it.

The alternative hypothesis
While formulating a null hypothesis we also consider the fact that the belief
might be found to be untrue hence we will reject it. We therefore
formulate an alternative hypothesis which is a contradiction to the null
hypothesis, thus when we reject the null hypothesis we accept the
alternative hypothesis.




                                                         om
In our example the alternative hypothesis would be
       H1 = each bag does not weigh 2kg




                                                     i.c
Acceptance and rejection regions
                                                 ng
All possible values which a test statistic may either assume consistency with
                                              si
the null hypothesis (acceptance region) or lead to the rejection of the null
                                        om

hypothesis (rejection region or critical region)
                                  om



The values which separate the rejection region from the acceptance region
are called critical values
                              as
                         .m




Type I and type II errors
While testing hypothesis (H0) and deciding to either accept or reject a null
                      w




hypothesis, there are four possible occurrences.
                   w




a) Acceptance of a true hypothesis (correct decision) – accepting the null
                w




   hypothesis and it happens to be the correct decision. Note that
   statistics does not give absolute information, thus its conclusion could
   be wrong only that the probability of it being right are high.
b) Rejection of a false hypothesis (correct decision).
c) Rejection of a true hypothesis – (incorrect decision) – this is called type I
   error, with probability = α.
d) Acceptance of a false hypothesis – (incorrect decision) – this is called
   type II error, with probability = β.

Levels of significance
A level of significance is a probability value which is used when conducting
tests of hypothesis. A level of significance is basically the probability of one
making an incorrect decision after the statistical testing has been done.
Usually such probability used are very small e.g. 1% or 5%

  141
                 0.5000                              0.4900
