record up to date continuously, and also into the appropriate job or process
const record.

As already indicated, all the above procedures may be integrated into a
computerised stock record which can provide information at the press of a
button to the storekeeper, buyer, production planner, financial manager or any

                                       273
other person authorized to key into it. For example, information on slow-moving
stock items can be obtained automatically and without delay.


MATERIAL STORAGE
Sophisticated mathematical models to control economic buying, and systems
control the flow of material may all be for nought if the obvious—efficient
storekeeping—ignored. Good practice in this respect implies:


•     The employment of a well-trained stores staff
•     Use of the most efficient equipment—for storage and handling
•     Easy access to items—stored in logical order
•     Siting of stores convenient to users
•     Security against theft and fire
•     Protection against deterioration
•     A system of continuously checking physical with recorded stocks.




                                                        om
INVENTORY PLANNING AND CONTROL



                                                    i.c
The major goal of "inventory control" is to discover and maintain the optimum
                                               ng
level of investment in all types of inventories, from raw materials and supplies
to finished goods that helps to maximize long-run profits.
                                             si
                                       om

Two limits must be imposed in controlling inventory levels, because there are
two danger points that management usually wants to avoid. They are:
                                 om




i.    That inadequate inventories, disrupts production and may lose sales.
                             as




ii.   That excessive inventories, introduces unnecessary carrying costs and
                        .m




obsolescence risks.
                     w
                  w




MOTIVES FOR HOLDING INVENTORIES
               w




If production and delivery of goods were instantaneous, there would be no need
for inventories. However in reality, the manufacturing and purchasing processes
do not function quickly enough to avoid the need for having inventories. Hence
inventories must be maintained so that he or she does not turn to another source
of supply. In turn, production operations cannot flow smoothly without having
inventories of direct materials, work-in-progress, supplies, etc. In other words
inventories must be viewed as cushions:

i.    To absorb planning errors and unforeseen fluctuations in supply and
      demand. (i.e. precautionary motive).

ii.   To facilitate smooth production and marketing operations.
      Note: The fundamental questions to which answers are required are:

      a.     How much should the company order (when stocks are re-ordered)?
      b.     When should the company reorder?
                                       274
      c.      How much should the company produce, and when (if internal
production is involved).


     Accordingly regardless of their complexity, all inventory planning models
     focus on the twin problem of size and timing.

1.       CHOOSING ORDER QUANTITY (SIZE—PROBLEM)
         The objective of inventory decisions is usually to minimize total inventory
