Solving this simultaneously gives:
                                             ng
                                           si
                0.17 X2 =3
                                     om

                X2 = 17.65
                X1 = 12.35
                               om



Which give a contribution of.
                4(12.35) + 3(17.65) = Sh.102.35
                           as




The contribution change is Sh.2.11 which is the shadow price per labor hour.
                       .m




Note:
                       w




The shadow prices apply in so far as the constraint is binding for example if
                  w




more and more labor hours are available it will reach a point where labor hours
               w




are no longer scarce thus labor hours cease to be a binding constraint and its
shadow price becomes a zero.(All non-binding constraints have zero shadow
price). Logically its senseless to pay more to increase a resource, which is
already abundant.

Interpretation of shadow prices
A shadow price of a binding constraint indicates to management how much
extra contribution will be gained by increasing a unit of the scarce resource.
In the example above Sh.2.11 is the shadow price for labor hours. This implies
that management is ready to pay up to Sh.2.11 extra per hour for the extra
hours i.e. say an employee is paid sh.5 per hour and one day he works for two
hours extra (overtime), the management is prepared to pay up to sh.7.11 per
hour for the two hours overtime worked.

Sensitivity Analysis


                                     319
Definition: Sensitivity analysis is the test of how certain changes in resources
affect the optimal solution.

In sensitivity analysis we consider the effect of additional limiting or non-
limiting constraints.
We already know that adding more non-limiting constraints does not change
the optimal solution.
We also know that adding more binding constraints affects the objective
function.
It is very important for the management to know how much of a limit resource
can be made available until it has no effect on the objective function (ie
ceases to be a binding resource)


SIMPLEX METHOD
When analyzing linear programming problems with three or more variables the
graphical method becomes enadequate, in such cases we employ simplex




                                                             om
method . Simplex method is an algebraic procedure for solving systems of
equations requiring optimization of the objective function..




                                                            i.c
This method can be applied to any number of variables, the more they are the
more complex it becomes to workout a solution on paper. Computer programs
                                                       ng
e.g. Tora are used to solve the most intricate problems.
The first step in simplex method is conversion of inequalities to linear
                                                       si
equations
                                             om


