
            efficient use of man power.
         2. it improves quality of decision
                            as




         3. it gives possible practice positively
         4. It improves the knowledge and skills of executive.
                        .m
                     w




Limitation
                  w




   1. it assumes that the activity is infinitely divisible
               w




   2. it treats all relationships as linear
   3. it takes into account single object only.
   4. It can be adopted only under the condition of certainty i.e. when the
      quantity of resources is known.

Assumption of linear programming
   1. linearity
   2. Divisibility- assumes that quantities, costs and revenues are infinitely
      divisible.
   3. certainty- the technique assumes that there is certainty in all
   4. positive solutions- non negative constraints are introduced to ensure the
      values are considered
   5. Interdependent between demands for products is ignored.
   6. Time factor is ignored. It assumes that production is instantaneous.



                                       308
Application of linear programming
Production department to decide the quantity of pots to be produced subject
to limited resources (constraints) e.g. labor, power, machine hours, raw
materials etc.
Marketing department: Allocation of salesmen to different sales regions subject
to their expected performance.
Human Resource: Scheduling personnel‘s work hours and job description to
either maximize production or minimize cost.

Steps in solving linear programming problems (problem formulation)
1. Identify variables (e.g. product x and product y)
2. Identify the objective (To maximize contribution or to minimize cost), and
   write down its mathematical presentation in terms of variables.
3. Identify the constraints (i.e. the limited resources shared among the
   variables), and write down its mathematical representation in terms of
   variables.
4. Write down the objectives and the constraints in terms of the variables.




                                                      om
These steps apply regardless of the number of the variables.




                                                  i.c
NOTE: If only two variables are involved, a graphical solution can be used
otherwise for multivariable problems, an algebraic method is applied to find
the solution.
                                              ng
                                            si
Example 1:
                                     om

Long Castling Breweries manufactures two brands of beer, Benko lager and
Benoni lager. Benko has a contribution of Sh.4 per unit and Benoni has a
                                om



contribution of Sh.3 per unit. Benko requires 30 machine minutes and 30 labor
minutes to manufacture a unit. Total available machine hours per day are 12hrs
                            as




whereas total available labor hours per day are 14hrs.
                       .m



