
                                             314
                                                      om
                                                     i.c
                                              ng
                                             si
                                      om

Point X is the last feasible solution. Coordinates of this point give a
combination of the two lager‘s production volumes that fetches the highest
                                om



contribution.
Coordinates of point X can be read from the graph, but for precision they are
                            as




calculated by solving simultaneously the equations of the two lines that
intersect at point X.
                        .m




The two constraints are called binding or limiting constraints. They are the
resources being fully used thus preventing daily contribution from increasing
                     w




further.
                  w




Therefore to get point x we solve:
               w




                0.5X1 + 0.33X2 = 12…. (i)
                0.5X1 + 0.5X2 = 14 …. (ii)
Since X is the intersection of these two constraints, solving by deducting (i)
from (ii) we get
                0.17X2=2
                X2 =11.76

And substituting X2 = 11.76 to equation (i) we get
               X1 = 16.24

Therefore 11.76 units of Benko lager and 16.24 units of Benoni lager need to be
produced for maximum contribution.

               Contribution = 4(16.24) + 3(11.76) = 100.24

                                       315
Requirements in linear programming
   Assumptions that are made to solve these types of problems are that:.
    Proportionality: all activities in linear programming problems are
      proportional to the level of decision variables.
    Divisibility: the solution to a linear programming problem does not have
      to be an integer but for strictly whole number solutions, use integer
      programming.
    Non-negativity: no decision variable can be negative.
    Additivity: the total of all activities in linear programming problems are
      assumed to equal to the sum of individual activities.

Special cases in linear programming
    Infeasibility: This is when all constraints don‘t satisfy a particular point
      thus there is no feasible solution.
    Redundancy: A constraint is considered redundant if it does not affect
      the feasible region. This happens in cases of excess resources since it
      does not limit attainment of the objective.




                                                       om
    Multiple optimal solutions: This occurs when the objective function has
      the same slope as a binding constraint.




                                                    i.c
Minimizing problem
                                              ng
                                            si
Example
                                      om

A manufacturing company has acquired new machine for producing product P
at a rate of 25 units per hour with a 98% rate of efficiency. The company
