                w




without replacement
Sampling is said to be with replacement when from a finite population a
sampling unit is drawn observed and then returned to the population before
another unit is drawn. The population in this case remains the same and a
sampling unit might be selected more than once
If on the other hand a sampling unit is chosen and not retuned to the
population after it has been observed the sampling is said to be without
replacement.
Random samples may be selected by the help of lottery method or table of
random numbers (such as tippet‘s table of random numbers, Fischer and
Yates numbers or Kendall and Babington Smith numbers.)

Stratified sampling


  129
In this case the population is divided into groups in such a way that units
within each group are as similar as possible in a process called
stratification. The groups are called strata. Simple random samples from
each of the strata are collected and combined into a simple. This technique
of collecting a sample from a population is called stratified sampling.
Stratification may be by age, occupation income group e.t.c.

Systematic Sampling
This sampling is a part of simple random sampling in ascending or
descending orders. In systematic sampling a sample is drawn according to
some predetermined object. Suppose a population consists of 1000
Units, then every tenth, 20th or 50th item are selected. This method is very
easy and economical. It also saves a lot of time

Multistage sampling
This is similar to stratified sampling except division is done on




                                                        om
geographical/location basis, e.g. a country can be divided into provinces
and then survey is done in 4 towns in each province. This helps to cut




                                                    i.c
traveling costs for a surveyor.

Cluster Sampling                               ng
                                             si
This is where a few geographical regions e.g. a location, town or village are
                                       om

selected at random and say every single household or shop in that area is
interviewed. This again cuts on costs.
                                 om



Judgment Sampling
Here the interviewer selects whom to interview believing that their view is
                             as




more fundamental since they might be directly affected e.g. to find out
                         .m




effects of public transport one may chose to interview only people who
don‘t own cars and travel frequently to work.
                      w
                   w




Merits of random or probability sampling
                w




    i)     Since the sample is objective and unbiased, it is defensive before
           the supervisor.
    ii)    The size of the sample does not depend upon the expediency or
           mere tradition but on demonstrable statistical method.
    iii)   Te degree of deviation from the parameter i.e. the statistical
           measure based on population can be estimated.
    iv)    It provides a more accurate method of drawing conclusion.
The sample may be combined and evaluated even though accomplished by
different individual.


