reports are presented in the cash-flow mode used to appraise investments, to
facilitate comparison of actual with planned cash flows.




                                                   i.c
Some businesses do make such comparisons as part of their retrospective
                                               ng
monitoring of investment decisions, but there is no obligation to do so. Cash-
flow accounting, as it is called, has its supporters, but its introduction is
                                             si
frustrated by statutory and non-statutory regulations.
                                      om


The Companies Act requires limited companies to produce profit and loss
                                 om



accounts and balance sheets in prescribed form. The Inland Revenue assumes
that taxable profit has been computed by applying recognized accounting
                            as




principles. The Accounting Standards Committee recommends the application of
standard practices in the measurement of profit and portrayal of a company's
                        .m




financial position in its balance sheet. More compellingly, profit and loss
                     w




reporting is compatible with the investors' objectives of stable and growing
                  w




earnings.
               w




Profit is measured conventionally by setting against the sales revenue for a
period the costs expired in earning that revenue. That is, sales are matched
against their relevant costs. Profit is therefore more evenly reported than it
would be if all cash receipts and payments, capital and revenue, were fully
reflected in the accounts of the period in which they are received and paid.

The management accountant also adopts the matching principle when preparing
control information in both actual and budgeted form, and also ascertains full
product cost as a starting point for setting selling prices.

This outlines the systems and methods used to control the flow of resources
through production and service cost centres, for their eventual inclusion in
product and period costs.



                                       267
MATERIAL CONTROL
It is said that "any fool can sell"—it is buying at the right price that is more
critical to the achievement of a satisfactory return on capital employed. Buying
price is important of course, but buying the right materials, is equally important
if production targets are to be achieved and investment in inventories to be
minimized.


WHAT TO ORDER
This is governed by product specifications, but an efficient buyer will always
have his ear to the ground to discover new and substitute materials and
components of advantageous quality and price. Other economies can be realized
by reducing the variety of materials purchased by standardization, e.g. reducing
the variety of colors of paint stocked, or by introducing value analysis into the
decision process.




                                                       om
VALUE ANALYSIS
Is a formalized technique involving a rigorous analysis of products at the design




                                                   i.c
stage or at any time during the saleable lives, to determine their value
characteristics. These are the attributes that a customer looks for in a product
                                               ng
