


       x1 = Xtragrow, x2 = Young row and x3 = Zupergrow
               w




    Value: this is value that the variables assume at optimal solution (to
       optimize the objective function one needs to produce this amounts of
       the variables). In our example we are required to produce 1,666.67 of x1
       and 1,750 of x2 and none of x3
    Objective coefficient: these are the coefficients of the objective
       function
    Objective value contribution: this is the value contributed by each
       variable to the objective function (for x1=25×1,666.67), the total of this
       is equal to our objective value (i.e. 41,666.67+35,000=76,666.67).

The 3 columns of the second part of table1 can be interpreted as follows;
   Constraints: this is constraints of the model representing the limited
      resources.
   RHS: the Right hand side value is the limiting value of the constraint.
       E.g. for the first constraint the maximum amount of material A is 500
      tons.
                                      324
      Slack/surplus: at optimal production not all the materials for some of
       the constraints will be fully utilized, slack is the amount of material that
       is left over after production. For constraint 1 and 4 no material
       remained, this also implies that these are the binding constraints i.e.
       their adjustment directly affects the objective solution



Sensitivity Analysis
This is the analysis of the effect of adjusting variables or constraint, whether
the objective solution will be affected. How much of the objective coefficient
(or the maximum available amount of a constraint) can be reduced or
increased without affecting the objective solution.
The columns of this table can be interpreted as follows;
    Variable: as explained above
    Current objective coefficient: this is the value of coefficients of the
        objective function




                                                        om
    Minimum objective coefficient: this is how low the coefficient can be
        reduced without affecting the optimal basis. The coefficient for x1 can




                                                    i.c
        be reduced from 25 to 13.50 (the prize for Xtragrow fall to as low as
                                               ng
        $13.50 from $25) but the optimal solution will remain the same
                                             si
   Maximum objective coefficient: this is how high the coefficient can be
                                       om

      increased without affecting the optimal basis
                                 om



   Reduced cost: this is amount by which the coefficient of the variable has to
      be adjusted with for it to become a basic variable (included to the
                             as




      objective optimal solution). X1 and x2 have 0 reduced costs implying
      that they already make part of the optimal solution, x3 will require to
                        .m




      be increased by 7.67 for it to make part of the basic variable.
                     w
                  w
               w




The second part of the table is interpreted as follows;
    Constraints: as described above
    Current Right Hand Side: the limiting value of the constraint. E.g. for
      the first constraint the maximum amount of material A is 500 tons.
    Minimum RHS: the lowest the available amount of the constraint can be
      reduced without affecting the optimal basis
    Maximum RHS: the highest the available amount of the constraint can
      be increased without affecting the optimal solution
    Dual price: this is amount increase to the objective contribution due to a
      unit increase of the available constraint. Since there is only 500 tons of
      material A, if management decides to increase it by a unit to 501tons
