possible to calculate the value of a and b




  108
                             CHAPTER SIX
                        ELEMENTS OF PROBABLITY

SPECIFIC OBJECTIVES
At the end of the topic the trainee should be able to:
     Discuss the basic concepts of probability;
     Apply the techniques of counting and set theory;
     Apply the laws of probability;
     Apply probability distribution concepts to decision problems.

Introduction
Probability is the ratio of the number of favorable cases to the total
number of equal likely cases. Probability is a very popular concept in
business management. This is because it covers the risks which may be
involved in certain business situations. It is a fact that when a business
investment is being arranged, the outcome is usually uncertain. Therefore




                                                                om
the concept of probability may be used to describe the degree of
uncertainty of a particular business outcome. Probability may therefore




                                                               i.c
be defied as the chances of a given event occurring. Numerically,

                                                       ng
probability values range between 0 and 1. a probability of 0 implies that
the event cannot occur at all. A probability of 1 implies that the event will
                                                    si
certainly occur.
                                             om

Therefore other events have their probabilities with values lying between 0
and 1
                                     om



   The formula used to determine probability is as follow
                             as




                                 r       Favourable outcomes
             Probability (x) =       
                                 n         Total outcomes
                         .m




Uses of Probability in Business
                      w




1. Business games of chance e.g. Raffles Lotteries e.t.c.
                   w




2. Insurance firms: this is usually done when a new client or property is
                w




   being insured. The company has to be certain about the chances of the
   insured risks occurring.
3. Business decision making regarding viability of projects thus the projects
   with a greater probability has greater chances.

Example
A bag contains 80 balls of which 20 are red, 25 are blue and 35 are white.
A ball is picked at random what is the probability that the ball picked is:
(i)    Red ball
(ii)   Black ball
(iii) Red or Blue ball


Solution

  109
                                                Number of red balls in the bag
(i)         Probability of a red ball =                                             PR 
                                                Total number of balls in the bag
