variable as a result of changes occurring on the independent variable.
Knowledge of regression is particularly very useful in business statistics
where it is necessary to consider the corresponding changes on dependant
variables whenever independent variables change. It should be noted that
most business activities involve a dependent variable and either one or
more independent variable. Therefore knowledge of regression will enable
a business statistician to predict or estimate the expenditure value of a
dependant variable when given an independent variable e.g. consider the




                                                        om
above example for annual incomes and annual expenditures. Using the
regression techniques one can be able to determine the estimated




                                                    i.c
expenditure of a given family if the annual income is known and vice versa.

                                                ng
 Difference between correlation and regression analysis
                                             si
There are two important points of difference between correlation and
                                       om

regression analysis
    1. Correlation coefficient as a measure of degree of relationship
                                  om



       between x and y. while regression analysis is to study the nature of
       relationship between the variables.
    2. The cause and effect relation is clearly indicated through regression
                             as




       analysis while correlation is merely a tool of ascertaining the degree
                         .m




       of relationship between two variables.
                      w




The general equation used in simple regression analysis is as follows
                   w




             y = a + bx
                w




Where y = Dependant variable
      a= Interception y axis (constant)
      b = Slope on the y axis
      x = Independent variable
      i.     The determination of the regression equation such as given
             above is normally done by using a technique known as ―the
             method of least squares‘.
Regression equation of y on x i.e. y = a + bx




  101
y                                      x   x         Line of best fit
                                   x   x
                          x x
                      x   x
                  x   x
          x   x


                                                     x




                                                         om
The following sets of equations normally known as normal equation are
used to determine the equation of the above regression line when given a




                                                   i.c
