

        ii) It should be easy to compute
        iii) It should be rigidly d3efined
        iv) It should be based on every observation of the distribution
        v) It should be amenable to further algebraic treatment
        vi) It should have sampling stability
        vii) It should not be unduly affected by extreme observation

Methods of studying variation
The following Aretha important methods of studying variation

              The range
              The Mean deviation
              The interquartile range or quartile deviation
              The standard deviation
   63
               The Lorenz curve

         Absolute and relative measures of variation
  Measures of variation may be either absolute or relative. Absolute measures
  of variation are expressed in the same statistical unit in which the original
  data are given. Such shillings, kilograms, tones, etc
  These values may be used to compare the variation in two or more than two
  distributions provided the variables are expressed in the same units and
  have almost the same average value.
  In case the two sets of data are expressed in different units such as
  manager‘s salary versus workers salary, the absolute measures of variation
  are not comparable. In such cases measures of relative variation should be
  used.
  A measure of relative variation is the ratio of a measure of absolute
  variation to an average. It is sometimes called a coefficient of variation,
  because coefficient means a pure number that is independent of the unit of




                                                         om
  measurement.




                                                     i.c
a) The Range

                                                 ng
  The range is defined as the difference between the highest and the smallest
  values in a frequency distribution. This measure is not very efficient
                                              si
  because it utilizes only 2 values in a given frequency distribution. However
                                          om

  the smaller the value of the range, the less dispersed the observations are
  from the arithmetic mean and vice versa
                                   om



  The range is not commonly used in business management because 2 sets of
  data may yield the same range but end up having different interpretations
                               as




  regarding the degree of dispersion.
  Range is the simplest method of studying variation. It is defined as the
                          .m




  difference between the value of the smallest observation and the value of
                        w




  the largest observation
                     w
                  w




  Range = largest value- smallest value

  R= L-S

  Coefficient of Range = L-S
                           L+S
  Example
  The following are the prices of shares of a company from Monday to
   Saturday
  days                           Prices
  Monday                         200
  Tuesday                        210
  Wednesday                      208
  Thursday                       160
