         costs to the company. Costs are ascribed to all elements which are of
         interest in reaching its inventory decisions (e.g. purchasing costs, stock
         out costs etc.), and solutions, are derived based on these costs.

         Several inventory planning models exist. These models can be classified
         into two basic classified into two basic classifications:




                                                          om
         i.    Deterministic Models:—whereby all parameters are known with
               certainty, e.g. lead-time, annual demand, etc.




                                                      i.c
         ii.   Stochastic Models:—in which parameters (particularly demand and
                                                 ng
               lead time) are not known with certainty, but follow known
               probability distributions (i.e. risks)
                                               si
                                         om

A.       THE DETERMINISTIC MODELS
                                   om



         1.    THE BASIC EOQ MODEL
                               as




               This is the most simple of all the models discussed. In addition to
               the general assumptions which relate to all deterministic models
                          .m




               (i.e. certainty of all parameters) it is further assumed that:
                        w




               a.     Demand is continuous and constant over time.
                     w




               b.     That suppliers lead time is zero i.e. stocks are delivered
                    w




                      immediately on the day the order is made.
              c.      That stock-outs are not allowed.
              d.      There are no bulk quantity discounts.
              e.      Holding costs per unit, ordering costs per order and costs per
unit are constant.

               Relevant costs of basic EOQ model
                      The relevant costs that should be considered when
                      determining optimum inventory levels can be classified into
                      two categories:
               i.     Ordering costs.
               ii.    Holding (Carrying) Costs.
                      I.e. TC = Ordering Costs + Holding Costs

               i.     Ordering Costs
                                         275
                             These are incurred in getting purchased items into
                             the company‘s inventory or stores, and usually consist
                             of clerical costs of:

                      1.     Making the purchase requisition.
                      2.     Issuing of a purchase order
                      3.     Follow-up action
                      4.     Receiving the goods
                      5.     Inspection for quality control
                      6.     Placing goods in stores
                      7.     Paying vendors (Suppliers)
Note:
The basic EOQ model assumes that these costs are fixed constant for each order
made.

ii.     Carrying costs of inventory




                                                          om
                These are costs incurred because the firm has decided to maintain
                inventories. They usually consist of:
