On the other hand the test may compuliate on the right hand tail of the




                                                   i.c
normal distribution when this happens the major complaint is likely to do
with oversize items bought. Therefore the test is known as one tailed as the
focus is on one end of the normal distribution.
                                               ng
                                            si
                              Number of standard errors
                                       om

                               Two tailed    One tailed
                                     test           test
                                  om



        5%       level   of          1.96          1.65
        significance
                              as




        1%       level   of          2.58          2.33
        significance
                             .m
                         w




HYPOTHESIS TESTING PROCEDURE
                         w




Whenever a business complaint comes up there is a recommended
procedure for conducting a statistical test. The purpose of such a test is to
                   w




establish whether the null hypothesis or alternative hypothesis is to be
accepted.
The following are steps normally adopted
   1. Statement of the null and alternative hypothesis
   2. Statement of the level of significance to be used.
   3. Statement about the test statistic i.e. what is to be tested e.g. the
       sample mean, sample proportion, difference between sample means
       or sample proportions
   4. Type of test whether two tailed or one tailed.
   5. Statement on critical values using the appropriate level of
       significance
   6. Standardizing the test statistic
   7. Conclusion showing whether to accept or reject the null hypothesis

  145
STANDARD HYPOTHESIS TESTS
In principal, we can test the significance of any statistic related to any
probability distribution. However we will be interested in a few standard
cases. The sample statistics mean, proportion and variance, are related to
the normal, t, F, and chi squared distributions
Thus


   1. Normal test
   Test a sample mean ( X ) against a population mean (µ) (where samples
   size n > 30 and population variance σ2 is known) and sample proportion,
   P(where sample size np >5 and nq >5 since in this case the normal
   distribution can be used to approximate the binomial distribution




                                                       om
   2. t test




                                                   i.c
   Tests a sample mean ( X ) against a population mean and especially
                                               ng
   where the population variance is unknown and n < 30.
                                            si
   3. Variance ratio test or f test
                                       om

   It is used to compare population variances and it is used with samples of
   any size drawn from normal populations.
                                 om



