(Table1) there may have been a measles epidemic in 2006, but it would be
extremely difficult to predict when and if such an epidemic would occur
                       w




again.
                    w
                 w




Summary
To sum up, a time series (Y) can be considered as a combination of the
following four factors:
     Trend (T)
     Seasonal variation (S)
     Cyclical fluctuation (C)
     Irregular fluctuations (I).


Time series models:


  175
Additive Model
Time series value = T +S +C +R
           Where S, C and R are expressed in absolute value.
This model is best suited where the component factors are independent
e.g. where the seasonal variation is unaffected by trend.

Multiplicative Model:
Time series value = T × S× C × R
            Where S, C and are expressed as percentage or proportions.

This model is best applied where characteristics interact e.g. where high
trends increase seasonal variations. Multiplicative model is more commonly
used in practice.
Of the four elements of time series the most important are trend and
seasonal variation. The following illustration shows how the trend (T) and
seasonal variation (S) are separated out from a time series and how the




                                                       om
calculated T and S values are used to prepare forecast. The process of
separating out the trend and seasonal variation is known as deseasonalising




                                                   i.c
the data.

                                              ng
There are two approaches to this process: one is based on regression
through the actual data points and the other calculates the regression line
                                           si
through moving average trend points. The method using the actual data is
                                      om

demonstrated first followed by the moving average method.
                                 om
                            as
                        .m
                     w
                  w
                w




  176
                                CHAPTER TEN

                               INDEX NUMBERS

SPECIIFIC OBJECTIVES
At the end of this topic the trainee should be able to:
     Define index numbers;
     Differentiate between the types of index numbers
     Explain the uses of index numbers
     List the limitations of index numbers.

INTRODUCTION
An index number is a device which shows by its variation the changes in a
magnitude which is not capable of accurate measurement in itself or of
direct valuation in practice. An index number may be described as a
specialized average designed to measure the level of a phenomenon with




                                                         om
respect to time geographic location or other characteristics such as income.
Uses of index numbers

