charged with the responsibility of ensuring that the products made do meet
the customers standards e.g. the Kenya bureau of standards (KeBS) is one of
                        w




the national institutions which on behalf of the government inspects the
                     w




various products to ensure that they do meet the customers specification.
                 w




The KeBS together with other control department have developed quality
control charts. They use these charts to check whether the products are up
to standards or not.

2. Statistics may be used in making or ordering economic order quantities
(EOQ).
 It is important for a business manager to realize that it is an economic cost
if one orders a large quantity of items which have to be stored for too long
before they are sold. This is because the large stock holds a lot of capital
which could otherwise be used in buying other items for sale.
It is also important to realize that the longer the items are stored in the
stores the more will be the storage costs
On the other hand if one orders a few items for sale he will incur relatively
low storage expenses but may not be able to satisfy all the clients. These

   29
may lose their customers if the goods are out of stock. Therefore it is
advisable to work out the EOQ which will be sufficient for the clients in a
certain period before delivery.
The EOQ will also ensure that minimal costs are incurred in terms of storage

3. Forecasting
Statistics is very important for business managers when predicting the
future of a business for example if a given business situation involves a
dependent and independent variables one can develop an equation which
can be used to predict the output under certain given conditions.

4. Human resource management
Statistics may be used in efficient use of human resources for example we
may give questionnaires to workers to find out where the management is
weak
By compiling the statistics of those who were signing it may be found useful




                                                        om
to analyze such data to establish the causes of resignation thus whether it
is due to frustration or by choice.




                                                    i.c
BASICS FOR DATA COLLECTION
                                                ng
                                             si
Introduction
                                       om

A statistical investigation involves a number of stages:
     Definition of the problem or issue;
                                  om



     Collection of relevant data;
     Classification and analysis of the collected data;
     Presentation of the results.
                             as




Even before the collection of data starts, then, there are some important
                         .m




points to consider when planning a statistical investigation.
                      w




Preliminary considerations.
                   w



