       meaning of the diagram.
                  w




   - Diagram should be as simple as possible.
                w




Types of diagrams.
   - One dimensional diagram e.g bar diagram.
   - Two dimensitional diagram e.g squares .
   - Picto grams and cartograms.

One dimensional diagrams.
   - Bar diagrams are the most common type of diagram used in practice
      , a bar is a thick line whose width is shown merely for attention.
   - They are called one dimensional because it is only the lengh of the
      bar that matters and not the width.



   37
Merits of bar diagrams.
   - They are readily understood even by those unaccustomed to reading
       charts or those who are not chart minded.
   - They posses the outstanding advantage that they are the simplest
       and the easiest to make.
   - When a large number of observation are to be compared they are the
       only form that can be used effectively..


Points to mind when constructing bar diagrams.
   - The width of the bars should be uniform throughout the diagram.
   - The gap between one bar and another should be uniform throughout.
   - Bars may either horizontal or vertical .the vertical bars should be
       preferred because they give a better look an also facilitate
       comparison.




                                                       om
   - While constructing the bar diagram it is desirable to write the
       respective figure at the end of each bar so that the reader can know




                                                   i.c
       the precise value without looking at the scale.

                                               ng
                                            si
Types of bar diagrams.
                                      om

   (a) Simple bar charts.
   (b) Sub divided or component bar charts.
                                 om



   (c) Multiple bar charts
   (d) Percentage component barcharts.
                             as
                        .m




     (a) Simple bar charts.
It is used to represent only one variable i.e show s only totals.
                      w




However an important limitation of such diagrams is that they can prefer
                   w




only one classification or one category of data e.g for example while
                w




presenting the population for the last five decade , one can only depict the
total population in the simple bar diagram and not its sex- wise
distribution.

    (b) Component bar charts.
These diagrams are used to represent various parts of the total, while
constructing such charts, the various components in each bar should be
