
QUESTION TWO
c) A baker makes two products; large loaves and small round loaves. He can
                                om



   sell up to 280 of the large loaves and up to 400 small round loaves per day.
   Each large loaf occupies 0.01m3 of shelf space, each small loaf occupies
                           as




   0.008m3 of space, and there is 4m3 of shelf space available. There are 8
   hours available each night for baking, and he can produce large loaves at
                         .m




   the rate of 40 per hour, and small loaves at the rate of 80 per hour. The
                    w




   profit on each large loaf is Sh.5.00 and Sh.3.00 profit on the small round
                  w




   loaf.
               w




    Required:
    In order to maximize profits, how many large and small round loaves should
he produce?

d) Summarize the procedure for solving the kind of quantitative technique you
   have used to solve part (a) above.                            (Q 6 June
   2001)

QUESTION THREE
c) A small company will be introducing a new line of lightweight bicycle
   frames to be made from special aluminum alloy and steel alloy. The frames
   will be produced in two models, deluxe and professional. The anticipated
   unit profits are currently Sh.1, 000 for a deluxe frame and Sh.1,500 for a
   professional frame. The number of kilograms of each alloy needed per

                                     327
     frame is summarized in the table below. A supplier delivers 100 kilogram‘s
     of the aluminum alloy and 80 kilogram‘s of the steel alloy weekly.

                                  Aluminum alloy        Steel alloy
                 Deluxe                 2                   3
                 Professional           4                   2

     Required:
     iii) Determine the optimal weekly production schedule.
     iv) Within what limits must the unit profits lie for each of the frames for
          this solution to remain optimal?

d) Explain the limitations of the technique you have used to solve part (a)
   above.
                                                   (Q 6 Dec 2000)

QUESTION FOUR




                                                       om
a) Define the following terms as used in linear programming:
   i) Feasible solution




                                                    i.c
   ii) Transportation problem
   iii) Assignment problem
                                               ng
                                              si
b) The TamuTamu products company ltd is considering an expansion into five
                                       om

   new sales districts. The company has been able to hire four new
   experienced salespersons. Upon analysing the new salesperson‘s past
                                 om



   experience in combination with a personality test which was given to them,
   the company assigned a rating to each of the salespersons for each of the
                                as
