      EST per route and then select the longest route (time)
   d) The EST of the finish event is the shortest time the whole project can be
      completed.

Latest Start Times (LST) – Backward pass. this is the latest possible time
      with which a preceding activity can finish without increasing the project
      duration. After this operation the critical path will be clearly defined.

From our example this is done as follows;
                                           248
                                          2                            LST
                                        3 3
                               B                  D
                                   2              4

            0      A      1        C      3      E      4     F         5
          0 0      1    1 1        3    4 6      1    7 7     2       9 9


             LST = Lowest of [LST (head event) – activity duration]

   a) Starting at the finish event, insert the LST (i.e. 9 for our example) ,and
      work backwards through the network.
   b) deduct each activity duration from the previously calculated LST (i.e.
      head LST).
   c) Where the tails of activities join an event, the lowest number is taken as




                                                       om
      the LST for that event




                                                   i.c
Critical path determination
                                              ng
                                             si
Critical Path. . This is the chain of activities in a network with the longest
                                       om

          duration Assessment of the resultant network shows that one path
          through the network (A, B, D, F) has EST's and LST's which are
                                om



          identical this is the critical path.

         The critical path can be indicated on the network either by a
                           as




         different colour or by two small transverse lines across the arrows
                       .m




         along the path, thus in our example we have;
                    w
                 w




                                          2
                w




                                        3 3
                               B                  D
                                   2              4

            0      A      1        C      3      E      4     F         5
          0 0      1    1 1        3    4 6      1    7 7     2       9 9


         Activities along the critical path are vital activities which must be
         completed by their EST's/LST's otherwise the project will be delayed.

         Non critical activities (in the example above, C and E) have spare
         time or float available. C and/ or E could take up to an additional 2
         days in total without delaying the project duration. If it is required to
         reduce the overall project duration then the time of one or more of
         the activities on the critical path must be reduced perhaps by using
         more labour, or better equipment to reducing job times.

                                       249
Float
Float or spare time can only be associated with activities which are non-
critical. By definition, activities on the critical path cannot have float. There
are three types of float, Total Float, Free Float and Independent Float. To
illustrate these types of float we use the following example.
