Optimum manpower planning
    Optimum no of persons to be maintained on permanent or full time roll
    The no. of persons to be kept in work pool intended fro meeting the absenteeism.
    Optimum manner of sequencing and routing of personnel to a variety of jobs
    Studying personnel recruiting procedures, accidents rates and labor turnover

Market Management
    Where distribution and warehousing should be located the size, quantity to be stocked and choice of customers.
    Optimum allocation of sales budget to direct selling of promotional expenses.
    Choice of different media of advertising and bidding strategies.

Financial management
    Finding long range capital requirement as well as how to generate theses requirements
    Determining optimum replacement policies
    Working out a profit plan for the firm
    Developing capital investment plans
    Estimating credit and investment risks.

4
Limitation of Q.T s
1. the inherent limitation concerning mathematical expressions
2. high costs involved in the use of QTs
3. They do not take into consideration the intangible factors i.e. non-measurable human factors.
4. Quantitative techniques are just the tools of analysis and not the complete decision making process.

Role of QT in business and industry
1. they provide a tool for scientific analysis
these techniques provides executives with a more precise description of the cause and effect relationship and risks underlying the business operations in measurable terms and this eliminates the conventional intuitive and subjective basis on which management used to formulate their decisions.

2. they provide solution for various business problems
Are used in the field of production, procurement, marketing, finance and other allied fields. Problems like how best can managers and executive4s allocate available resources to various products so that in a given time the profits are maximized or costs are minimized. Is it possible for an enterprise to arrange the time and quantity of orders of its stocks such that the overall profit with given resources is maximized?

3. they enable proper development of resources
E.g. programmed evaluation and review techniques (PERT) enables us to determine earliest and the latest time fro each of he events and activities and thereby helps in the identification of the critical path. All these helps in deployment of resources from one activity to another to
