                                                     om
In business one may be interested to establish whether there exists a
relationship between the




                                                 i.c
    i.     Amount of fertilizer applied on a given farm and the resulting

    ii.
           harvest
                                             ng
           Amount of experience one has and the corresponding
                                          si
           performance
                                     om

    iii.   Amount of money spent on advertisement and the expected
           incomes after sale of the goods/service
                                om



There are two methods that measure the degree of correlation between
two variables these are denoted by R and r.
                            as




   (a) Coefficient of correlation denoted by r, this provides a measure of
                        .m




       the strength of association between two variables one the dependent
       variable the other the independent variable r can range between +1
                     w




       and – 1 for perfect positive correlation and perfect negative
                  w




       correlation respectively with zero indicating no relation i.e. for
               w




       perfect positive correlation y increase linearly with x increment.
   (b) Rank correlation coefficient denoted by R is used to measure
       association between two sets of ranked or ordered data. R can also
       vary from +1, perfect positive rank correlation and -1 perfect
       negative rank correlation where O or any number near zero
       representing no correlation.




   88
Significance of the study of correlation
    Most of the variation shows some kind of relationship between price
       and supply income and expenditure. With the help of correlation
       analysis the degree of relationship existing between the variable can
       be measured.
    The value of one variable can be estimated once it has been known
       that they closely related. It can be done with the help of regression
       analysis.
    It contributes to the economic behavior, aids in locating the critically
       important variable on which other depend.
    Nature has been found to be multiplying of interrelated force.
    It helps in determining the degree of relationship between two or
       more variable.


Types of correlation




                                                       om
    Positive and negative correlation
    Simple, partial and multiple




                                                   i.c
    Linear and non linear.

Positive and negative correlation              ng
                                            si
If both the variable is varying in the same direction i.e. if one variable is
