From each batch received take a random sample of 50 shafts, and accept
that batch if no more than two defectives are found in the sample.
                              as
                         .m




Mr. Brooks needed to calculate the probability of accepting a batch P a,
when the proportion of defectives in the batch, p, is small (under 10%, say)
                      w
                   w




Required:
                w




 a) Explain why the Poisson distribution is appropriate to investigate this
      situation.
 b) Using the Poisson distribution, determine the probability of accepting
      a batch Pa, containing p=2% defectives if the method is used.
      Determine Pa, for p = 0%, 2%, 5%, 10%, 15%

Question Two
A woven cloth is liable to contain faults and is subjected to an inspection
procedure. Any fault has a probability of 0.7 that it will be detected by the
procedure, independent of whether any other fault is detected or not.

Required:
a) If a piece of cloth contains three faults, A, B and C,

  124
     i)    Calculate the probability that A and C are detected, but that B is
           undetected;
    ii)    Calculate the probability that any two of A, B and C be detected,
           the other fault being undetected;
    iii)   State the relationship between your answers to parts (i) and (ii)
           and give reasons for this.

b) Suppose now that, in addition to the inspection procedure given above,
   there is a secondary check which has a probability of 0.6 of detecting
   each fault missed by the first inspection procedure. This probability of
   0.6 applies independently to each and every fault undetected by the
   first procedure.
      i) Calculate the probability that a piece of cloth with one fault has
           this fault undetected by both the inspection procedure and the
           secondary check;
     ii) Calculate the probability that a piece of cloth with two faults has




                                                         om
           one of these faults detected by either the inspection procedure
           or the secondary check, and one fault undetected by both;




                                                     i.c
    iii) Of the faults detected, what proportions are detected by the

                                                ng
           inspection procedure and what proportion by the secondary
           check?
                                             si
                                        om
                                  om



Question Three
A company has three production sections S1, S2 and S3 which contribute 40%,
                              as




35% and 25%, respectively, to total output. The following percentages of
faulty units have been observed:
                         .m




            S1                     2%                       (0.02)
                      w




            S2                     3%                       (0.03)
                   w


