                                       om

increasing the other on an average is also increasing or if one variable is
decreasing the other on an average is also decreasing. Correlation is said to
                                 om



be positive. On the other hand if they are varying in the opposite directions
i.e. as one variable is increasing the other is decreasing or vice versa,
                             as




correlation is said to be negative.
Positive correlation                      negative correlation
                        .m




  X     T                                        X      T
10      15                                       20     40
                      w




12      20                                       30     30
                   w




15      22                                       40     22
                w




18      25                                       60     15
20      37                                       80     16



Simple partial and multiple correlations
The distribution between simple, partial and multiple correlations are
based upon the number of variable studied.
When only two variables are studied it is a problem of simple correlation.
When three or more variables are studied it is a problem of either

Multiple or partial correlation.
In multiple correlations three or more variables are studied simultaneously.


   89
Linear and non linear correlation
The distinction between linear and non linear correlation is based upon the
constancy of the ratio of change between the variables. If the amount of
change in one variable tends to bear constant ratio to the amount of
change in the other variable then the correlation is said to be linear. If such
variable are plotted on a graph paper, all the plotted points would fall on a
straight line. Correlation would be non linear or curvilinear, If the amount
of change in one variable does not bear constant ratio to the amount of
change in the other variable.

Scatter diagram
The simplest device for studying correlation in two variables is a special
type of dot chart called dotogram or scatter diagram.
A scatter graph is a graph which comprises of points which have been
plotted but are not joined by line segments
The pattern of the points will definitely reveal the types of relationship




                                                           om
existing between variables
The following sketch graphs will greatly assist in the interpretation of




                                                     i.c
scatter graphs.

                                                ng
                                             si
                           Perfect positive correlation
                                        om

                      y
Dependant variable                                                   x
                                  om



                                                                     x
                               as
