                                             si
                                      om
                                 om
                            as




JUST-IN TIME (JIT) INVENTORY MANAGEMENT
                        .m




JIT is a system whose objective is to produce or to purchase products or
components as they are required by customers or for use rather than for stock.
                     w




A JIT system is a pull system which responds to demand as opposed to a push
                  w




system in which stocks acts as buyers* between the different element of the
               w




system such as purchasing, production and sales


JIT PRODUCTION
Is a production system, which is driven by demand for the finished products
whereby each component on the production line is produced only when needed
for the next stage.


JIT PURCHASING
 On the other hand is a purchasing system in which material purchased are
contracted so as that the receipt and usage of materials to the maximum
extent possible, coincide.



                                       302
JIT concept can be traced back to the Japanese company whose success in the
international market generates interest among many western companies as t6o
how this success was achieved.
The implementation of JIT production methods was considered to be pursuit of
excellence in all phase of manufacturing systems design and operations.
The JIT are to produce the required items at the required quality and in the
required quantities, at the precise time that they are required.

JIT seeks to achieve the following goals-
(1). Elimination of non-value adding activities.
(2). Zero inventory
(3). Zero defects
(4). Batch size of one.
(5). Zero break-downs
(6). 100% on time delivery services.

The above goals represent perfection and are most unlikely to be archived in




                                                      om
practice. They do however offer targets and create a climate for continuous
improvement and excellence.




                                                   i.c
Major features of JIT.
                                               ng
                                             si
(1). Elimination of non-value added activity
                                      om

 JIT manufacturing can be described as a philosophy of management, dedicate
to the elimination of waste. Waste is defined as anything that does not add
                                 om



value to a product.
The cycle time involved in manufacturing and selling a product consist of –
                             as
                         .m




      Process time-add values
