and has to be classified and processed using appropriate statistical methods
in order to reach a solution to the problem.

Secondary sources
Secondary data can be obtained from journals, reports, and government
publications, publications of research organization, trade and professional
bodies.
Secondary data must be used with utmost care, before using secondary data
the investigator should examine the following;
   1. Whether the data are suitable for the purpose of investigation.
   2. whether the data are adequate for the purpose of investigation
   31
   3. Whether the data are reliable.
Secondary data is any data other than primary data. Thus, it includes any
data which has been subject to the processes of classification or tabulation
or which has resulted from the application of statistical methods to primary
data, and all published statistics.

Internal data
Internal data refers to the measurement that are the by products of routine
businesses records keeping like accounting , finance, production personnel,
quality control , sales , R&D.
Since internal data originate within the business collecting the desired
information does not usually offer much difficult. The particular procedure
depends largely upon the nature of the facts being collected and the form
in which they exist.

Data collection methods and limitations




                                                          om
The methods usually available are as follows:
    Questionnaires




                                                      i.c
    Observation
    Interview
    Use of published statistics                 ng
                                              si
                                        om

       a. Questionnaire
                                   om



As the name suggest is distinguished by the fact that data are collected by
asking questions from people who are thought to have the desired
information.
                              as




A formal list of such questions is called a questionnaire
                          .m




Questionnaire refers to a device for securing answers to questions by using
a form which the respondent fills in it.
                          w




       b. Observation
                    w




The investigator observes the object or action in which he is interested.
                 w




Sometime individual makes the observation on other occasions mechanical
device observe and record the desired information.
Observation method does not automatically produce accurate data. Physical
difficulties n the observation situation on the part of the observer may
result in errors.

Classification of Data
Classification is grouping of related facts into different classes. Facts in one
class differ from another class with respect to some characteristics called a
basis of classification.
Sorting facts on one basis of classification and then another basis is called
cross-classification

Rules of Classification

   32
