



1.        There is no hard and fast rule that all the inventory items should be
                       w




          classified only in these three categories. There can be a large number
                     w




          of classifications based on the requirements of the company and the
                 w




          nature of the items. For example `A' items may be further sub-
          classified as A1, A2, A3, etc. The same principle may be extended to `B'
          items also or alternatively all the inventory items may be classified into
          A, B, C, D, E, F, etc.

2.       All items that the company consumes must be considered together while
         classifying into ABC classes. Separate classification of raw materials,
         spares and consumable is not really meaningful.

While classifying as ABC items, what counts is the consumption shillings and not
the unit price of an item or its consumptions in terms of units. Thus of the three
items given below, the last one is most important since its annual consumption
in terms of value is more than the other two.

              Item       Price/U    Annual            Annual
                         nit        Consumption       Consumption
                                        298
                       Shs       in units           in Shs
           X           20,000    2                  40,000
           Y           0.02      100,000,000        200,000
           Z           1,000     500                500,000

4.    Even though, so far we have referred to annual consumption, it is not at
      all necessary that the consumption figures should be taken only for one
      year. It can be for 6 months or even 3 months. But the period should be
      so selected that the consumption figures would be representative.
      However, annual figures are far more convenient and are universally
      followed.

5.    If a firm follows ABC analysis, it will devote much time and effort on the
      control of `A' items. For example, extra care will be taken in the
      determination of minimum, maximum, reorder level, etc. of the `A'
      items, whereas so much control may not be exercised on `C' items. `A'
      items may be purchased only once in a year. For `A' items perpetual




                                                        om
      inventory system may be applied whereas in the case of `C' items, only a
      bin card may be maintained. In the same way an appropriate accounting




                                                   i.c
      method for `B' items may be devised. However, in the classification of
      items into ABC categories if there are some critical items which are of
                                               ng
      small value whose non-availability may hamper the production, may in
                                              si
      the normal situation, be classified as `C' items but, due to the critical
                                      om

      nature of these items extra care may be taken so that these may not go
      out of stock.
                                om



6.    The objective of classifying inventory items into `A', `B' and `C' categories
      is to develop policy guidelines for selective control. Such a policy can be
                            as




      designed in a variety of ways. In general `A' items merit a tightly
                       .m




      controlled inventory system with periodic attention, and `C' items to
      subject to loose control with casual attention.
                       w
                   w
               w
