

We will begin by plotting a time-series graph for the data, as shown in
Figure 9.1.
                             as
                         .m




Note the following characteristics of a time-series graph:
    It is usual to join the points by straight lines. The only function of
                      w




      these lines is to help your eyes to see the pattern formed by the
                   w




      points.
                w




    Intermediate values of the variables cannot be read from the graph.
    Every time-series graph will look similar to this, but a careful study
      of the change of
    Pattern over time will suggest which model should be used for
      analysis.

There are four factors that influence the changes in a time series – trend,
seasonal variations, cyclical fluctuations, and irregular or random
fluctuations. Now we will consider each in turn.

Trend
This is the change in general level over the whole time period and is often
referred to as the secular trend. You can see in Figure 9.1 that the trend is
definitely upwards, in spite of the obvious fluctuations from one quarter to

  174
the next. A trend can thus be defined as a clear tendency for the time
series data to travel in a particular direction in spite of other large and
small fluctuations.


Seasonal Variations
These are variations which are repeated over relatively short periods of
time. Those most frequently observed are associated with the seasons of
the year, e.g. ice cream sales tend to rise during the summer months and
fall during the winter months. You can see in our example of employees'
sickness that more people are sick during the winter than in the summer. If
you can establish the variation throughout the year then this seasonal
variation is likely to be similar from one year to the next, so that it would
be possible to allow for it when estimating values of the variable in other
parts of the time series. The usefulness of being able to calculate seasonal
variation is obvious as, for example, it allows ice cream manufacturers to




                                                          om
alter their production schedules to meet these seasonal changes.




                                                      i.c
As this type of fluctuation is difficult to determine, it is often considered

                                                 ng
with the final (fourth) element, and the two together are called the
residual variation.
                                              si
                                        om

Irregular or Random Fluctuations
Careful examination of Figure 9.1 shows that there are other relatively
                                  om



small irregularities which we have not accounted for and that do not seem
to have any easily seen pattern. We call these irregular or random
fluctuations; they may be due to errors of observation or to some one-off
                              as




external influence which is difficult to isolate or predict. In our example
                          .m




