
Disadvantages of sampling
          Non accurate
                             as




          Reliability is low.
                        .m




Size of the sample
                      w




An important decision that has to be taken while adopting a sampling
                   w




technique is about the size of the sample. However the following two
                w




considerations may be kept in mind in determining the appropriate size of
the sample;
          a) The size of the sample should increase as the variation in the
              individual item increases.
          b) The greater the degree of accuracy desired the larger should
              be the sample size.

Sampling and non- sampling errors
A sample being only a part of a population cannot represent the population
no matter how carefully the sample is selected. This gives rise to the
difference between the value of sample statistics and the true value of the
corresponding population parameters. Such difference is called sampling
error for that sample. These errors can be avoided through proper selection


  127
of questionnaires, following up the non-response, proper training of the
investigator, and correct manipulation of the collected information.

Sampling errors are of two types.
   I. Biased errors
  II. Unbiased errors

Biased errors
These errors arise from any bias in selecting estimation.

Unbiased errors
These errors arise due to chance difference between the member of
population included in the sample and those not included. Thus the total
sampling errors is made up of errors due to bias and the random sampling.

Causes of bias




                                                          om
   I. Faulty process of selection
  II. Faulty work during the collection of information




                                                      i.c
Faulty methods of analysis.
                                                 ng
Sampling bias means a systematic component of error which deprives
                                              si
statistical results of its representatives. Bias is introduced by the following
                                        om

methods of selection.
                                   om



   i)      Deliberate selection
Bias originates from deliberate selection which is biased on personal
judgment of what is representative.
                              as
                          .m




   ii)    substitution
   Sometime sit becomes difficult to make contact with certain member or
                        w
