   1. the number of classes should preferably be between 5 and 15
   2. as far as possible one should avoid odd values of class intervals
   3. the starting point i.e. the lower limit of the first class should either
      be zero or 5 or multiple of 5
   4. to ensure continuity and to get correct interval we should adopt
      exclusive method of classification
   5. Whenever possible all classes should be of the same size.

Types of classification

    Geographical
    Chronological
    Qualitative
    Quantitative

Geographical classification; in geographical classification data are classified




                                                           om
on the basis of geographical or location difference between the various
items.




                                                       i.c
Chronological classification; when data are observed over a period of time,

                                                  ng
the type of classification is known as chronological classification.
                                               si
Qualitative classification; in qualitative classification data re classified on
                                         om

the basis of some attributes or quality such as sex, color of hair, literacy,
religion.
                                   om



QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS DATA COLLECTION LIMITATION OF STATISTICS.
 Despite the usefulness of statistics in many fields, impression should not be
                               as




carried that statistics are like magical devices which always provide the
                          .m




correct solution of problems . unless the data are properly collected and
critically interpreted there is every likelihood of drawing wrong
                       w




conclusion. Therefore it is necessary to know the limitation and the possible
                    w




misuse of statistics.
                 w




The following are the important limitation of the science of statistics:
    - Statistics does not deal with isolated measurement.
    - Statistics deals only with quantitative characteristic i.e quantitative
       characteristic such as honesty , efficiency , intelligence, blindness
       and deafness cannot be studied directly
    - Statistics result are true only an average.
    - Statistic is only a means not a end.
    - Statistics can be misused.


Classification functions.
Classification of data is a function very similar to text of sorting letters in a
post office. It is well known that the letter collected in a post office are
sorted into different geographical basis i.e in accordance with their

   33
destination as Nairobi , Mombasa , kampala etc .they are then put in
separate bags each containing letters with a common characteristic , or
having the same destination.
Classification of statistical data is comparable to the sorting operation, the
process of classification gives prominence to important information
gathered while dropping unnecessary details facilitates comparison and
enables a statistical treatment of the material collected.

Formation of frequency distribution.
Here we just count the number of times a particular value is repeated
