
      rows.
   - Rows are horizontal arrangements whereas columns are vertical
                         .m




      ones.
                      w




   - The purpose of a table is to simplify the presentation and to
      facilitate comparisons.
                    w




   - The simplication result from the clear cut and systematic
                 w




      arrangements which enables the reader to quickly locate desired
      information.

Parts of a table.
   - The various parts of a table may vary from case to case depending
       upon the given data, but a good table must contain atleast te
       following parts:
       (a) Table number
       (b) Title of the table
       (c) Caption
       (d) Stub
       (e) Body of the table
       (f) Headnote
       (g) Footnote
   36
   (a) table number. each table should be numbered.
   (b) Title of the table. every table must have a suitable title.
   (c) Caption.it refers to the column heading .it represent what the
       column represent.
   (d) Stub .are the designation of the rows or row heading .they are at
       the extreme left and perform the same function for the horizontal
       rows or numbers I the table as the Column heading do for the
       horizontal rows or numbers in the table as the column heading do for
       the vertical column or numbers.
   (e) Body of the table. It contains the numerical information .data
       presented in the body arranged according to description are
       classification of the captions and stubs.
   (f) Head note. It is a brief explanatory statement applying to all or a
       major part of the material in the table and is placed below the tittle




                                                       om
       entered and closed in brackets.
   (g) Footnote .they are placed directly below the body of the table.




                                                   i.c
DIAGRAMATIC AND GRAPHICAL PRESENTATION .       ng
                                            si
Diagrams.
                                       om

Rules for construction of diagrams.
   - There must be the title of the diagram .
                                 om



   - Proper proportion between width and height should be maintained.
   - The scale selected should be appropriate
   - If necessary footnotes should be given at the bottom of the diagram.
                             as




   - Diagram should be absolutely neat and clean
                        .m




   - An index illustration different types of lines or different shades ,
       column , should be give so that the reader can easily make out the
                     w




