               w




The aim is to produce products or component from start to finish without
returning to the stock room or stores

(3). Batch size of one.
Set up time is the amount of time required to adjust equipment and to retool
for a different product. Long set ups a change over time make the production
of batches with a small no. of units uneconomical.
However, the creation of large batches lead to substantial lead time delays and
the creation of high inventory levels. The JIT philosophy is to reduce and
eventually eliminate set-up times.E.g. by investing in advanced manufacturing
technology some machines setting can be adjusted automatically instead of
manually.
Alternatively some set up times can be eliminated entirely by reducing
products, so that markets do not have to be reset each time a different
product has to be made.

                                      304
If the set up times are approaching zero, then there‘s no advantage production
in batches and therefore the optimal batch size can be one. With a batch size
of one, the work can flow smoothly to the next stage without the need for and
to schedule the next machine to accept this item.


JIT PURCHASING ARRANGEMENTS
JIT philosophy also extends to adapting JIT purchasing techniques whereby
delivery of material immediately precedes their use. By arranging with
suppliers for more frequent deliveries stocks can be out to a minimum
Considerable savings in material handling expenses can be obtained by
requiring suppliers to inspect materials before their delivery and guarantee
their quality.
This improved service is obtained by giving more business to fewer suppliers
and placing long tern purchasing orders, therefore the suppliers has an
assurance of long term sales and can plan to meet this demand.
Companies that have implemented JIT purchasing techniques have claimed to




                                                     om
substantially reduce their investment in raw materials and work in progress
stocks.




                                                 i.c
Other advantages include

   1. Substantial savings in factory space.
                                             ng
                                          si
   2. Large quantity discount.
                                     om

   3. Savings in time from negotiating with fewer suppliers
   4. Reduction in paper work arising from issuing (long term orders) to a few
                               om



      suppliers rather than individual purchase order to many suppliers.
                           as




JIT and Management Accounting.
                       .m




Management accountants in many organisations have been criticised because of
their failure to change their managing accounting system to reflect the mode
                    w




from a traditional manufacturing to a JIT manufacturing system.
                 w




Conventional management accounting systems can encourage behaviour that is
              w




inconsistent with JIT phylosopy, management, accounting must support JIT
manufacturing by monitoring, identifying, and communicating to decision
makers any delays errors and waste in the system.

