



parameter. It is divided into point estimation (where an estimate of a
                w




population parameter is given by a single number) and interval estimation
(where an estimate of a population is given by a range in which the
parameter may be considered to lie) e.g. a bus meant to take a class of 100
students (population N) for trip has a limit to the maximum weight of 600kg
of which it can carry, the teacher realizes he has to find out the weight of
the class but without enough time to weigh everyone he picks 25 students
selected at random (sample n = 25). These students are weighed and their
average weight recorded as 64kg ( X - mean of a sample) with a standard
deviation (s), now using this the teacher intends to estimate the average
weight of the whole class (µ – population mean) by using the statistical
parameters standard deviation (s), and mean of the sample ( x ).




  132
Characteristic of a good estimator
      (i)    Unbiased: where the expected value of the statistic is equal to
             the population parameter e.g. if the expected mean of a
             sample is equal to the population mean
      (ii)   Consistency: where an estimator yields values more closely
             approaching the population parameter as the sample increases
      (iii) Efficiency: where the estimator has smaller variance on
             repeated sampling.
      (iv) Sufficiency: where an estimator uses all the information
             available in the data concerning a parameter

Confidence Interval
The interval estimate or a ‗confidence interval‘ consists of a range (upper
confidences limit and lower confidence limit) within which we are




                                                      om
confident that a population parameter lays and we assign a probability that
this interval contains the true population value




                                                   i.c
The confidence limits are the outer limits to a confidence interval.

                                              ng
Confidence interval is the interval between the confidence limits. The
higher the confidence level the greater the confidence interval. For
                                           si
example
                                      om

A normal distribution has the following characteristic
        i.     Sample mean ± 1.960 σ includes 95% of the population
                                 om



        ii.    Sample mean ± 2.575 σ includes 99% of the population
                               as




Sampling distribution
                          .m




LARGE SAMPLES
                     w




These are samples that contain a sample size greater than 30(i.e. n>30)
                  w
                w




(a)      Estimation of population mean
Here we assume that if we take a large sample from a population then the
mean of the population is very close to the mean of the sample
Steps to follow to estimate the population mean includes
    i.      Take a random sample of n items where (n>30)
    ii.     Compute sample mean ( X ) and standard deviation (S)
    iii.    Compute the standard error of the mean by using the following
            formula
