



   information is not obtained from certain units then we substitute
                    w




   members or units that are conveniently available such substitution
                 w




   introduce bias.

   iii)    incomplete coverage
Bias also enters when we fail to cover the whole of he selected sample.

   iv)    haphazard selection
Haphazard human selection can also introduce bias as every human being
has a tendency away from randomness in his choice.

       v) Inadequate interviewing
Bias also enters when the interviewing is hasty, incomplete and misleading.

Sampling distribution


  128
A sampling distribution is defined as a probability distribution of the values
of a statistics such as mean, standard deviation, proportion computed from
all possible samples of the same size. Sampling distribution constitutes the
theoretical basis of statistical inference and are considerable important in
business decision making.




Methods of Sampling
a). Random or probability sampling methods
    They include:
    i.    Simple random sampling
    ii.   Stratified sampling
    iii.  Systematic sampling
    iv.   Multi stage sampling




                                                         om
b). Non random probability sampling methods




                                                     i.c
   These consist of:
   i.
   ii.
          Judgment sampling
          Quota sampling
                                                ng
                                             si
   iii.   Cluster sampling
                                        om
                                  om



Simple Random Sampling
This refers to the sampling technique in which each and every item of the
population is given an equal chance of being included in the sample. Since
                              as




selection of items in the sample depends entirely on chance, this method is
                          .m




also called chance selection or representative sampling.
It is assumed that if the sample is chosen at random and if the size of the
                       w




sample is sufficiently large, it will represent all groups in the population
                      w




Random sampling is of 2 types; sampling with replacement and sampling
